browser_ext/README.md, before:

# DLM Browser Extension

A universal browser extension that works in Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and other
modern browsers. Click the extension icon to send the current tab's URL to your
DLM server with a single click.

## Features

- **Universal compatibility**: Single extension works in all major browsers
- **Query selector link collection**: Find and add multiple URLs using CSS
  selectors
- **One-click URL submission**: Send current tab URL to DLM server
- **Right-click context menu**: Send any URL to DLM by right-clicking on links
- **Toast notifications**: Success and error messages displayed on the page
- **Configurable API endpoint**: Set your own DLM server URL
- **Visual feedback**: Loading indicator during requests
- **Keyboard shortcuts**:
  - `Ctrl+Alt+D` / `Cmd+Shift+Y` - Add current page
  - `Ctrl+Shift+F` - Open query selector (advanced mode)
- **Cross-browser API polyfill**: Automatic browser detection and compatibility

## Quick Start

### Installation

#### Chrome/Edge/Chromium

1. Open `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode"
3. Click "Load unpacked"
4. Select the `dlm/browser_ext/src` folder

#### Firefox

1. Open `about:debugging`
2. Click "This Firefox"
3. Click "Load Temporary Add-on"
4. Select `dlm/browser_ext/src/manifest.json`

### Usage

The extension has two modes:

1. **Simple Mode (Default)**: Click extension icon → saves current page
2. **Advanced Mode**: Query selector interface for bulk link collection

#### Send current tab URL (Default)

1. Navigate to any webpage you want to add to DLM
2. Click the DLM extension icon (or use `Ctrl+Alt+D` / `Cmd+Shift+Y`)
3. The extension will send the current tab's URL to your DLM server
4. A loading indicator ("...") will briefly appear on the extension icon
5. A success toast will appear confirming the URL was added, or an error toast
   if something went wrong

#### Query Selector Link Collection (Advanced Mode)

**Access via:**

- Right-click anywhere on page → "Find Links with Query Selector"
- Keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl+Shift+F`

**How to use:**

1. Opens the query selector interface in a popup window
2. Enter a CSS selector to find links (e.g., `a[href*='article']`)
3. Use quick action buttons for common selectors or click "Preview" to see
   matches
4. Click "Add URLs" to send all matching URLs to your DLM server
5. Alternatively, click "Add Current Page" to just add the current tab's URL

**Example selectors:**

- `a` - All links on the page
- `a[href*='github']` - Links containing 'github'
- `.article-link` - Links with class 'article-link'
- `nav a` - Links inside navigation elements
- `a[href^='https://']` - External HTTPS links

#### Send any URL via right-click

1. Right-click on any link on a webpage
2. Select "Send to DLM" from the context menu
3. The extension will send that specific URL to your DLM server
4. A loading indicator ("...") will briefly appear on the extension icon
5. A success toast will appear confirming the URL was added, or an error toast
   if something went wrong

### Configuration

1. Right-click the extension icon → "DLM Settings"
2. Enter your DLM API endpoint URL (default: `http://localhost:8001`)
3. Click "Save Settings"
4. Settings automatically sync across browser instances

## Development

### Prerequisites

- [Deno](https://deno.land/) (for TypeScript development)
- Modern browser for testing

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Test the extension
deno task test_ext

# Build distribution packages
deno task build_ext
```

### Building for Distribution

```bash
# Creates distributable packages:
# - dlm-extension.zip (Chrome Web Store / Edge Add-ons)
# - dlm-extension.xpi (Firefox Add-ons)
deno task build_ext
```

## API Integration

### Request Format

```javascript
POST /api/add-urls
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "urls": ["https://example.com/current-tab-url"]
}
```

### Server Requirements

- Accept POST requests to `/api/add-urls`
- Handle JSON payload with `urls` array
- Support CORS for cross-origin requests
- Return appropriate HTTP status codes

## Browser Compatibility

| Browser | Status              | Notes                                       |
| ------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Chrome  | ✅ Fully supported  | Uses polyfill for Manifest v2 compatibility |
| Firefox | ✅ Fully supported  | Native `browser.*` API support              |
| Edge    | ✅ Fully supported  | Chromium-based, works like Chrome           |
| Safari  | ⚠️ Requires testing | Should work with polyfill                   |
| Opera   | ⚠️ Requires testing | Chromium-based, likely works                |

## Technical Details

- **Manifest Version**: 2 (maximum browser compatibility)
- **API Polyfill**: Automatic detection of `chrome.*` vs `browser.*` APIs
- **Storage**: Uses browser sync storage for settings persistence
- **Permissions**: `activeTab`, `storage`, `contextMenus`, `tabs`
- **Toast Notifications**: Non-intrusive success/error messages with
  auto-dismiss
- **Query Selector Engine**: CSS selector-based link discovery with preview
- **Element Highlighting**: Temporary visual highlighting of matched elements

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Extension not loading**: Check file permissions and manifest syntax
2. **API calls failing**: Verify API endpoint URL in settings
3. **CORS errors**: Ensure server supports cross-origin requests
4. **Settings not saving**: Check storage permissions in manifest
5. **Query selector not finding links**: Ensure selector syntax is valid CSS
6. **No links highlighted**: Content script may need time to load, try
   refreshing

### Debug Mode

1. Open browser developer tools
2. Go to Extensions/Add-ons page
3. Click "Inspect" on the DLM extension
4. Check console for error messages

Commit message:

chore(ext): link to firefox extension page

browser_ext/README.md, after:

# DLM Browser Extension

A universal browser extension that works in Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and other
modern browsers. Click the extension icon to send the current tab's URL to your
DLM server with a single click.

## Features

- **Universal compatibility**: Single extension works in all major browsers
- **Query selector link collection**: Find and add multiple URLs using CSS
  selectors
- **One-click URL submission**: Send current tab URL to DLM server
- **Right-click context menu**: Send any URL to DLM by right-clicking on links
- **Toast notifications**: Success and error messages displayed on the page
- **Configurable API endpoint**: Set your own DLM server URL
- **Visual feedback**: Loading indicator during requests
- **Keyboard shortcuts**:
  - `Ctrl+Alt+D` / `Cmd+Shift+Y` - Add current page
  - `Ctrl+Shift+F` - Open query selector (advanced mode)
- **Cross-browser API polyfill**: Automatic browser detection and compatibility

## Quick Start

### Installation

#### Chrome/Edge/Chromium

1. Open `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode"
3. Click "Load unpacked"
4. Select the `dlm/browser_ext/src` folder

#### Firefox

Install from
[Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/dlm-download-manager/).

Or load temporarily for development:

1. Open `about:debugging`
2. Click "This Firefox"
3. Click "Load Temporary Add-on"
4. Select `dlm/browser_ext/src/manifest.json`

### Usage

The extension has two modes:

1. **Simple Mode (Default)**: Click extension icon → saves current page
2. **Advanced Mode**: Query selector interface for bulk link collection

#### Send current tab URL (Default)

1. Navigate to any webpage you want to add to DLM
2. Click the DLM extension icon (or use `Ctrl+Alt+D` / `Cmd+Shift+Y`)
3. The extension will send the current tab's URL to your DLM server
4. A loading indicator ("...") will briefly appear on the extension icon
5. A success toast will appear confirming the URL was added, or an error toast
   if something went wrong

#### Query Selector Link Collection (Advanced Mode)

**Access via:**

- Right-click anywhere on page → "Find Links with Query Selector"
- Keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl+Shift+F`

**How to use:**

1. Opens the query selector interface in a popup window
2. Enter a CSS selector to find links (e.g., `a[href*='article']`)
3. Use quick action buttons for common selectors or click "Preview" to see
   matches
4. Click "Add URLs" to send all matching URLs to your DLM server
5. Alternatively, click "Add Current Page" to just add the current tab's URL

**Example selectors:**

- `a` - All links on the page
- `a[href*='github']` - Links containing 'github'
- `.article-link` - Links with class 'article-link'
- `nav a` - Links inside navigation elements
- `a[href^='https://']` - External HTTPS links

#### Send any URL via right-click

1. Right-click on any link on a webpage
2. Select "Send to DLM" from the context menu
3. The extension will send that specific URL to your DLM server
4. A loading indicator ("...") will briefly appear on the extension icon
5. A success toast will appear confirming the URL was added, or an error toast
   if something went wrong

### Configuration

1. Right-click the extension icon → "DLM Settings"
2. Enter your DLM API endpoint URL (default: `http://localhost:8001`)
3. Click "Save Settings"
4. Settings automatically sync across browser instances

## Development

### Prerequisites

- [Deno](https://deno.land/) (for TypeScript development)
- Modern browser for testing

### Development Workflow

```bash
# Test the extension
deno task test_ext

# Build distribution packages
deno task build_ext
```

### Building for Distribution

```bash
# Creates distributable packages:
# - dlm-extension.zip (Chrome Web Store / Edge Add-ons)
# - dlm-extension.xpi (Firefox Add-ons)
deno task build_ext
```

## API Integration

### Request Format

```javascript
POST /api/add-urls
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "urls": ["https://example.com/current-tab-url"]
}
```

### Server Requirements

- Accept POST requests to `/api/add-urls`
- Handle JSON payload with `urls` array
- Support CORS for cross-origin requests
- Return appropriate HTTP status codes

## Browser Compatibility

| Browser | Status              | Notes                                       |
| ------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Chrome  | ✅ Fully supported  | Uses polyfill for Manifest v2 compatibility |
| Firefox | ✅ Fully supported  | Native `browser.*` API support              |
| Edge    | ✅ Fully supported  | Chromium-based, works like Chrome           |
| Safari  | ⚠️ Requires testing | Should work with polyfill                   |
| Opera   | ⚠️ Requires testing | Chromium-based, likely works                |

## Technical Details

- **Manifest Version**: 2 (maximum browser compatibility)
- **API Polyfill**: Automatic detection of `chrome.*` vs `browser.*` APIs
- **Storage**: Uses browser sync storage for settings persistence
- **Permissions**: `activeTab`, `storage`, `contextMenus`, `tabs`
- **Toast Notifications**: Non-intrusive success/error messages with
  auto-dismiss
- **Query Selector Engine**: CSS selector-based link discovery with preview
- **Element Highlighting**: Temporary visual highlighting of matched elements

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Extension not loading**: Check file permissions and manifest syntax
2. **API calls failing**: Verify API endpoint URL in settings
3. **CORS errors**: Ensure server supports cross-origin requests
4. **Settings not saving**: Check storage permissions in manifest
5. **Query selector not finding links**: Ensure selector syntax is valid CSS
6. **No links highlighted**: Content script may need time to load, try
   refreshing

### Debug Mode

1. Open browser developer tools
2. Go to Extensions/Add-ons page
3. Click "Inspect" on the DLM extension
4. Check console for error messages
